Right we are back.
So our last lecture talked about the wonderful world of rough cuts.
That's really your first step when it comes to editing together a video.
When you do a rough cut a lot of times you leave out any elaborate elements you plan on adding later.
For example you might plan on creating a cool intro titles and graphics and stuff but the rough cut
is just a quick throwing together of a working version of the main part of your video.
Now a lot of times in fact editors leave the intros and outros and other more elaborate pieces for the
end when they can actually devote more time if they don't have to worry about the rest of it being in
disarray.
However one way to speed up the process of creating these elements is to use templates and this is what
I want to cover in this lecture.
Now video templates are usually available in any of the editing programs you use.
The makers of these programs know that whether people are making ads explainer videos walkthrough whatever
that those videos have common pieces to them specifically.
Many videos and include intros lower thirds or things like slideshows.
Now of course don't rely too much on these templates that are built into the programs because oftentimes
they can look cheap because people will recognize them because they're so overused it often looks like
you put the minimal amount of effort into it.
It's like when you read someone's paper and it's written in that font that everybody associates with
Microsoft Word you know Calibra the you see Calibra fonts like wow you didn't even think about changing
the font you just went with the default that was given to you.
Anyway back to some of those things I mentioned intro's lower thirds and slideshows Well intro titles.
Nothing I just mentioned are pieces of video that run at the beginning of explainers or podcasts or
other episodes of series of videos is basically what you see before movies and TV episodes as well.
They include titles of some kind as well as some animated funkiness graphics music other pieces of video
you name it just so you can see what I mean.
I can throw up one of the ones that we use right now for my lectures you might have seen it.
I'm not sure.
Now there's multiple ways you can call these things I call them intro's Sometimes they're called bumpers
because they're put at the very beginning and end of your clips like kind of like book ends but technically
they're like intro titles.
Now they can be done in so many different ways but at their core it's usually just a list of words and
names a show and some kind of cool way.
It's also usually pretty short.
People generally hate it when it goes say longer than like eight seconds.
So these intro titles are a common type of template you will often find.
Then what you've got are called lower thirds which is a classic type of graphic dating back to the early
days of television.
Laura thirds are graphics that get displayed you can get it in the lower third part of your screen.
They're used to show the name and title of someone or a location name or these days it could be I don't
know to repeat any important statements or tips that are being described by the speaker it could be
really anything.
Now again this is a text based in fact that lots of people have created templates for so there's a lot
of variations in it also wouldn't be surprised if you see me doing this and a lot of my lectures.
And then you've got slideshows which yes can be a series of pictures shown in sequence on screen but
they can also be used to show video clips.
So instead of tax being the important content display it's pictures or videos where you've got some
animated effect or some split screen type things happening.
There are a lot of ways to show your various visuals on screen.
So in case you're still wondering why use templates rather than learn how to create all of these effects
sequences yourself.
You can take advantage of the expertise others have.
It's fantastic.
Saves you an enormous amount of time.
A lot of times all you have to do is drag and drop your own video onto the parts of the template where
it goes and your work is done or you put it in and then you select the attributes and then type in the
text where you need it and obviously saves time and money and it does oftentimes at a professional nice
little touch to it.
Assuming you do it well and you don't pick the cheesiest one you can find.
Plus if you use templates to do the cooler more work intensive parts of your video like the intro the
outro for example you can devote your attention to the main part of your video and focus on making that
as good as possible.
Leave the elaborate graphics and effects to the professionals out there creating this template.
So where can we find them.
Well I've actually showed you examples of templates for a Web site called motion or a dot com.
Last I checked while they had something like 700 templates you could use in Premiere and they include
things like Logo sequences slideshows lower thirds and some other really funky other things.
There are also design studios out there that create those templates.
Rampant design is an example of a design city that sells more premium templates along with motion graphics
and other fun stuff.
You can add your premier projects if you guys work with Final Cut Pro there is motion VFX where they
had a lot of templates but also special effects.
You can also get a lot of templates on Web sites like theme forest.
That's one it'll usually take you to things like graphic jungle or something like that.
They have a bunch of sub brands underneath that but the forest is a good place to start.
In other words off the top of my head is in Vado marketplace throat up here on screen.
Here's another place where you can buy things like opening sequences and closing sequences.
You can also just google free intro to are free bumpers free intro free outros things like that.
There are some free ones out there that you can get.
And yeah they're decent.
Now if you have a specific need look a style or a look in a google search should help you find what
you need.
Or you can use an existing template and added it to better reflect what you want.
But again you can outsource this work instead of trying to find the perfect template.
You also find someone on a freelance website like fiver for example and tell them hey here's this great
template on motional Ray that I love but I need something that better matches my company and style and
I prefer the sequence to be faster.
My colors actually.
Let's change the motion here.
Put in my logo whatever you give specific direction on what you want exactly.
There's tons of freelancers that actually specialize in just editing these templates for you.
We actually discuss outsourcing video work and the next lecture.
That sounds like a plan to you.
So one other benefit of templates is once you have a template you like and it works you can use as much
as you want.
Use your entire template just before every video.
Not just one.
Establish a style for lower thirds that you can use in all your videos.
In other words if you buy a template or outsource the creation of one or at least the customization
of one use it a lot and get your money's worth.
Generally speaking buying templates is pretty simple.
Go to any of these Web sites that I've mentioned throw some in the resources you generally just download
them and then you can literally drag and drop it into Premier or final cut pro and it'll pop up on your
timeline or you can import it by going to file and then import.
But that's actually a long way of doing it.
You can't figure it out.
You need to customize it again.
That's why fire is so great.
Can then five bucks and do it for you.
Anyway guys that's it.
See you next lecture.